Try harder.
[RENA]
Do something. I have to.
I have to try harder.
I can't let this end
the way it did before.
I have to try harder.
[RENA'S DAD groans]
My head's on fire.
Good morning, Reina.
[RENA]
Morning, Dad.
Here, drink up.
[RENA'S DAD]
Hmm?
Hey. Thank you for that.
[chuckles]
[RENA'S DAD groans]
Oh, by the way,
what's all the
stuff you picked up
from the hardware store?
Huh?
Sorry, I just happened
to notice the bag
sitting on the
floor in your room.
Did you go all the way out
to Okinomiya for that?
[RENA]
Uh, yeah, I was digging
around the old
dam construction dump,
and I found this
really cute statue.
But it's too big
to carry on my own,
so I went and bought some things
to help me bring it back!
That so?
I guess we'll be adding a new
piece to the garden display.
Be careful, all right?
Right. You don't need
to worry about me, Dad.
No one will look here.
[KEIICHI] Why the heck
is Rena taking so long?
[RENA]
Keiichi! Good morning!
Jeez, finally.
What was your hold‐up?
Sorry about that!
Did you wait long?
Did you?
Yeah, I was waiting
here way too long.
A few more seconds,
and I was gonna ditch you.
Awoo...
The other day, you promised
you would never leave me,
no matter how late I got here!
And I also said I'd totally
ditch you if you showed up late.
[RENA]
Aww...
You're so mean to me, Keiichi!
[KEIICHI]
You know.
I get that I said you should
sleep in now and then,
but I wasn't really expecting
you to go and do it.
Yeah, same here, that doesn't
seem like you at all.
And to sleep in on a
school morning, no less.
How unbecoming.
If you sleep all sprawly
with your belly out,
it's gonna give you a
big tummy‐ache later!
Guys, you've got it wrong!
I just had a few things to
take care of before school.
A few things like what?
Uh...
Whatever it is,
we can help if you want!
Thank you, but, no.
This is something I'm going
to have to deal with by myself.
All right.
If you say you can handle it,
then I won't worry.
Yeah, Rena!
You can do this!
Right! Thanks, guys!
Oh, yeah. Sorry, but I won't be
able to make it to club today.
Does that mean
you have to punish me?
Nah. It'll be okay.
Sounds like you've
got a lot on your plate.
Plus, the forecast said we might
be getting a bunch of rain.
Let's call it off
for the rest of the day.
It's no fun without
everyone here anyway.
I'm really sorry!
[RINA]
Hello there.
Sorry to show up unannounced.
Hope I didn't startle you.
Your name's Reina, isn't it?
Where do I start?
I'm already making
this super awkward.
So, um, I guess you can say
I'm friends with your dad.
Oh, right!
I need to introduce
myself first, Sorry.
No, I know who you are.
It's Rina Mamiya, isn't it?
Wow! How'd you know?
Oh. Dad likes you a lot;
he's always talking about you.
[laughs]
It's nice to hear that,
'cause your dad's a great guy.
[chuckles] Thanks,
that's nice of you, though
I'm still not sure why you
needed to see him at our house.
Well, he talks about you, too.
That's why I kind
of invited myself here.
So, I could meet this daughter
I've heard so much about,
you know?
You came all the
way out here to meet me?
I'm so glad!
I've actually been hoping
to meet you for a while,
so this is perfect!
[laughs]
You're happy to see me!
Seriously, that's
such a huge relief.
I hope you and
I can become friends.
Now that you're here.
I could really use your help.
Would you mind coming along
on a treasure hunt with me?
A treasure hunt?
Yeah! That could be fun!
Great! We'll have
to walk for a while.
Is it far?
Let's hope we
don't get rained on.
The skies look bad,
but the forecast said
it wouldn't rain today.
Is that right? Great!
This is a perfect chance
to get to know each other.
I'd love to come.
Yay!
Just wait for me a second, okay?
I need to grab a few things!
All right, I'm ready!
[thunder booms]
What's that?
It's something to help us
dig up our treasure.
[RINA] Wow, that's
some serious hardware.
[laughs]
Okay, Rina, let's go.
[RINA]
Wow, you're good at this.
So, Reina, it seems
like you must spend
a lot of time out here.
Do you bring your friends?
I'm usually by myself
when I'm here.
Not your typical teenager,
are you?
I never knew they stuffed
this much garbage
into this tiny village.
So, what're we looking for?
You still haven't told me.
Hey, you're still
listening, aren't you?
Ahh, sorry about that!
The wind must have picked up
and drowned you
out for a second.
[laughs]
Uh... Sure, got it.
[RENA]
This is my secret hideout.
Promise you won't tell
anyone about it, okay?
Aw!
This is adorable.
Cute little hideaway!
[laughs]
And it's all mine!
Nobody else
really comes out here,
and it's too far
for any sounds to carry.
[laughs]
I'm truly honored
that you were willing
to share such a
special place with me, Reina.
[laughs]
Okay, so now that we're here,
tell me about this treasure!
First thing is,
I need to grab a few of the
tools I have stored out here.
Wait one second.
[RINA]
Gosh.
You've been preparing for this.
Do you mind if I come inside?
Sorry, I prefer
if you stay out there.
[RINA]
Ah! This is so cool!
You really made a whole
little secret base out here,
didn't you?
You even got some cushions!
You could totally
come camp here!
I asked you to wait
outside, didn't I?
I'm really sorry!
It just started pouring.
Those forecasts are
so useless, am I right?
Ooh!
Does this lamp turn on?
[RENA]
It works.
They never shut off
the electricity
to the dam construction site,
so it's still active.
Really?
I've got something to say.
I'm sorry that it took me
so long to get to it.
Get to what?
Telling you, the truth
about your dad and me.
You know how I said
that he and I were friends?
Well, actually,
he's one of the customers
who pays for
my company at the club.
You're a hostess.
I could tell.
Dad comes home reeking of booze
every time he goes to see you.
Good point.
Of course, you'd know.
You're his daughter,
and you live together.
I'm from a
single‐parent household,
so I understand how hard
growing up like that can be.
I know this isn't
your responsibility.
[RINA] But I feel awful whenever
he shows up at the club.
So, I was hoping you'd try
and talk some sense into him.
Do you think you could
say something next time
and get him to stay home?
[RINA chuckles]
I guess, it's pretty crappy
of me to ask you for anything,
but I promise, I'll keep
my distance from now on.
I won't call him anymore.
Can you help me out?
I'm sure it's
what you want, too.
Is that cool?
[RENA] I understand
you completely, Rina.
Ahhh... Thank you.
Heh.
You've got a pretty
strong grip, Reina.
[laughs]
Reina. Let go.
Please, you're
really hurting me!
[RENA] You tricked my dad,
but I won't let you trick me!
[RINA]
I'm not!
[laughs maniacally]
This time.
I'm doing what's right!
I'm gonna do whatever I have
to so we can all be happy!
I've had to work so hard
for everything I have in life.
There's nothing I can do
but keep trying harder!
[grunts, gags]
[RENA laughs maniacally]
[coughs]
[shudders]
[RINA]
No!
Help me!
Please, someone help!
Don't do this. I'm sorry!
Please! I'm so sorry!
Don't kill me. Don't kill me.
Please don't kill me.
Please don't kill me!
Please! Please don't kill me.
I'm begging you.
Please don't kill me!
[thud]
[SATOKO]
Rena. There is a world
where you convince
Rika not to leave the village,
and in that world,
I promise you,
you'll get the happiness
you've worked so hard for.
[RENA pants]
Next step.
[RENA]
See, Dad?
I put in the effort
and saw it through.
I won't let the bad
people hurt my family!
Gotta hide you.
Can't let anyone dig you up.
All right!
School has finally
let out for the day!
I move to commence
our game club meeting!
Any objections?
No.
Then it's unanimous!
Wait. Rena?
Sorry, everyone,
but I still have some
more stuff I need to do.
Aw, again?
[RENA]
Aw... Unfortunately.
You head out early
for work all the time,
so it's fine, right, Mion?
[laughs]
Yeah, my uncle asks me
for help sometimes,
and I just can't turn him down.
I'm gonna have to try
my absolute hardest,
but when I'm done,
everything can go back
to how it's supposed to be!
Then we'll be here.
Still not sure what it
is you're doing,
but whatever it is,
your old Uncle Mion
and all your friends are
pullin' for ya all the way!
Thanks.
I'll see you
tomorrow, everybody!
I think I have an idea
what Rena's been up to.
Did you really manage to figure
something out from that?
Yeah.
That's good. She's still here.
[KEIICHI]
Hey! Rena! Workin' up a sweat?
[RENA]
Oh? Ah. Keiichi?
Why are you here?
I received word of an emergency
and came as soon as I could!
Now take me to
the man who was trapped!
[RENA]
Huh? Wait.
Someone was trapped?
Where?
[KEIICHI] Yes. Reports
described a Kenta‐kun statue
buried deep inside
this garbage heap.
Huh? Aw, come on.
You had me thinking
you were serious!
[KEIICHI chcukles]
I'm just goofin' around.
I promised I'd help, remember?
Huh? You came for me? Awoo!
[KEIICHI]
So, where is that Kenta‐kun at?
Uh... This way!
[KEIICHI]
It's down there?
Yeah. Keep going.
[KEIICHI pants]
Man, an axe or a saw
would be a big help.
We don't need
to do it right now!
[KEIICHI]
Don't worry! It's fine.
I wanna do this.
[exhales]
But I could use a break first.
Uh. Hold on,
I'll run home real quick
and grab some cold barley tea!
My house is super close by!
Keiichi's seen everything.
He knows what I've done.
He came because he could tell,
and now he's seen everything.
Keiichi knows what I did!
What do I do,
what do I do, what do I do?
Oh.
That's right.
I just have to keep
trying harder.
Hinamizawa.
Dam construction site.
Worker lynched,
murdered, and dismembered?
Then what he said, it's true!
[KEIICHI] Armed with
hatchets and pickaxes,
the assailants brutally
attacked and murdered the victim
before using an axe
to sever his head and limbs.
Huh?
[screams]
[shrieks]
Oh gosh!
Did I startle you?
Were you startled?
No, I'm fine.
[RENA]
Uh. Remember yesterday?
You said it would be
easier to get him out
if you had a saw or an axe.
So, I brought something with me
from my house today
that might help!
[KEIICHI]
Ah. Perfect. My bad.
I guess I overreacted
a little bit there.
[RENA]
Jeez. I'm sorry for scaring you.
Sorry!
This will definitely
be a big help,
but it's getting dark.
Let's call it for right now.
Yeah.
Don't worry, it'll be fine!
We can come back tomorrow!
[RENA]
Hmm?
You're still willing to help me?
[KEIICHI]
Of course!
Ah! Thank you, Keiichi!
Just wait Kenta‐kun.
I'm gonna bring
you home with me!
[laughs]
Ah. Oh, Rena, is that you?
Oh, you're Keiichi's mom!
It's good to see you!
Getting ready to
make dinner, I assume?
Plus, some extra for
my lunch tomorrow.
Awww... You're such
a good kid, Rena!
Keiichi would burn the house
down if he tried to cook.
It'd be great to have
someone to fill in for me
whenever I have to work late.
Could you help me with that?
Awoo! I would love to, ma'am!
Beg your pardon, miss,
but I've got a few questions
for a young lady
by the name of Reina Ryugu,
and I believe that's you.
Yes, that's me.
May I please ask your name?
[OOISHI]
You certainly may,
but I'd rather have this
conversation in the car.
The air out there's been
a little stuffy for me today,
ya know?
I like it better in here.
The AC keeps it nice and chilly.
You let me know if it's
too cold back there.
I tend to keep it blowing
harder than most folks.
What were these
questions you had for me?
[OOISHI]
Are you familiar this woman?
I've met her.
That's Rina Mamiya.
Right, that's the
name she uses for work.
She's Rina to her clients,
but her legal name is Ritsuko.
[RENA]
And did something happen to her?
We hope not, but she hasn't
been seen since yesterday.
She's missing?
[OOISHI] You sound a
bit concerned to hear that.
I saw her.
She came by the house yesterday.
Yeah, I had a feeling she had.
Some of her coworkers
told me she'd mentioned
she was taking a
trip out to Hinamizawa
to meet the teenage daughter
of one of her customers.
So now I'm here trying
to retrace her steps.
She showed up,
and we talked a while.
That's all.
She didn't mention
where she was going so...
[OOISHI]
I see.
And would you mind telling me
what you two talked about?
She told me that she was
raised by a single parent, too
and hoped we could be friends,
and that's really it.
So that's all, huh?
Well, if anything
comes back to you,
call the Okinomiya Police
Department and ask for Oishi.
[RENA]
I will.
Hey, it's almost time
for Watanagashi, isn't it?
Hopefully the villagers can
finally catch a break this year.
Huh?
From the curse of
Lord Oyashiro, obviously.
Now, you have a good night.
[RIKA] Next time:
Oniakashi‐hen, Part Three.